DOCS-12113-tracing-module-kt (#1635)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: tracing/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/tracing-module-logging.adoc

> = Configure Tracing Module Logging Variables Operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configure Tracing Module Logging Variable Operations
```

> The Tracing module *Clear logging variables*, *Remove logging variable* and *Set logging variable* operations enable you to enhance your logs by adding, removing, and clearing variables from the logging context for a given Mule event. The logging context exists for the entire execution of the corresponding event.

Reviewer: Note that the operation names are not in the same order as the descriptions of them that follow (and that "set" becomes "add"). IMHO, it would make most sense to name these chronologically: set/add, clear, remove.

Review wordings that appear in more than one topic to be sure that they are the same in each of those topics.

Reviewer: It's unfortunate that one operation uses the plural of "variable" and the others do not....

Reviewer: It might be worth thinking about moving the meaning of the second sentence into the first:
```suggestion
The Tracing module *Set logging variable*, *Clear logging variables*, and *Remove logging variable* operations enable you to enhance your logs by adding, editing, and removing variables from the logging context for the entire execution of a single Mule event. 
```
The operations revert thereafter?

> Mapped Diagnostic Context (MDC) enriches logging and improves tracking by providing more context or information in the logs for the current Mule event. By default, Mule logs two MDC entries: `processor`, which shows the location of the current event, and `event`, which shows the correlation ID of the event.

Reviewer: I suggest tying this para a bit more closely to the previous by beginning with the advantage to the user: the operations enable you to do this; the MDC helps you to do this:
```suggestion
You track these logging operations via Mapped Diagnostic Context (MDC), which by default shows the location of the current event (`processor`) and the correlation ID of the event (`event`).
```

== Prerequisites

To use the Tracing module logging operations, complete the following tasks:

* Add the module to your Mule project.
* Change the pattern layouts in the `log4j.xml` file to `MDC`.

== Add the Module to Your Mule Project

Add Tracing module to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the module's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `tracing` in the search field.
. Click *Tracing Module* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

== Change the Pattern Layouts in the log4j.xml File

> This change instructs Mule to automatically add the MDC context, which includes the correlation ID and the processor path. You can modify the `log4j.xml` file of your Mule app or the file of your Mule instance, which is located in `/conf/log4j2.xml`.

Reviewer: Compare the wording of the first sentence here with the wording used in Line 5 of the previous topic.

Reviewer: Suggestion for second sentence:

"To make the change, modify `log4j.xml` in your Mule app or within `/conf/log4j2.xml` in your Mule instance."

Follow these steps to change the pattern layouts to MDC:

. Open the `log4j.xml` file for editing.
. Replace `[processor: %X{processorPath}; event: %X{correlationId}]` with `[%MDC]`.

=== Example log4j.xml File Configurations

.Example: Default log4j.xml file without MDC logging.
----
<PatternLayout pattern="%-5p %d [%t] [processor: %X{processorPath}; event: %X{correlationId}] %c: %m%n"/>
----

.Example: Updated log4j.xml file with MDC logging.
----
<PatternLayout pattern="%-5p %d [%t] [%MDC] %c: %m%n"/>
----

== Configure Tracing Module Operations in Studio

> To configure the logging variables operations, add any of the available operations *Clear logging variables*, *Remove logging variable* or *Set logging variables* to your Mule app flow and specify the corresponding attributes.

Reviewer: ditto re. using the exact same wording at each instance

In the following example, you configure the *Set logging variables* operation:

. In the *Mule Palette* view of Studio, select *Tracing > Set logging variable*
. Drag *Set logging variable* to your Mule app.
. Set *Variable name* to `testVar`.
. Set *Value* to `testValue`.

image::tracing-module-set-logging-variable.png[Set logging variable operation configuration window]

In the Configuration XML editor, the `<tracing:set-logging-variable>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="exmapleFlow">
    ...
    <tracing:set-logging-variable variableName="testVar" value="testValue" />
    ...
</flow>
----

After executing the flow, the output logs are:
----
INFO  2021-04-08 16:58:26,882 [[MuleRuntime].uber.15: [test-project-app].exmapleFlow.CPU_LITE @18f679] [{correlationId=c85e16c0-98a4-11eb-bc34-cac765a2219b, processorPath=exmapleFlow/processors/2, testVar=testValue}] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: Example
----

> The previous logging context affects any output of a *Logger* component and any internal logging that Mule runtime engine produces. Therefore, you can add more context to the event that Mule is processing if you need additional information for tracking down any potential issue, for example, when an unexpected error occurs.

Reviewer: Does "Therefore, you can add..." refer to something that you have to do _after_ providing the previous logging context, or is this what the previous logging context actually does now?

. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the HTTP listener in the app.
. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Tracing > Set logging variable*.
. Drag *Set logging variable* to the right of HTTP Listener.
. Set *Variable name* to `customerId`.
. Set *Value* to `#[payload.customerId]` to log the customer ID sent in the request.
. Drag another *Set logging variable* operation to the right of the first *Set logging variable* operation.
. Set *Variable name* to `requestPath`.
. Set *Value* to `'#["$(attributes.method):$(attributes.requestPath)"]'` to log the request path.
. Drag a *Logger* component to the right of the second *Set logging variable* operation.
. Set *Message* to `#[output application/json --- payload]` to log the request payload.
. Save and run your Mule app.
. Send the following curl command:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
curl --location --request GET '0.0.0.0:8081/order' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "orderId": 548102842,
    "customerId": "ARG-12934",
    "items": [
        "CP-123",
        "CP-452"
    ]
}'
----

> The output logs the `customerId`, the `requestPath` and the request payload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output logs `customerId`, `requestPath`, and the request payload:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
INFO  2021-04-09 11:14:38,409 [[MuleRuntime].uber.05: [tracing-module].tracing-moduleFlow.CPU_LITE @34a62707] [processor: tracing-moduleFlow/processors/2; event: eb2b2461-993d-11eb-8a64-4865ee1fd814] {correlationId=eb2b2461-993d-11eb-8a64-4865ee1fd814, customerId=ARG-12934, processorPath=tracing-moduleFlow/processors/2, requestPath=GET:/order} org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: {
    "orderId": 548102842,
    "customerId": "ARG-12934",
    "items": [
        "CP-123",
        "CP-452"
    ]
}
----

=== XML for the Set Logging Variable Mule App

> Paste this code into your Studio XML editor to quickly load the flow for this example into your Mule app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paste this code into your Studio XML editor to quickly load the flow for this example into your Mule app:
```
